CHARGE AGAINST MR. BRADLAUGH.
      Mr. Charlos Bradlaugh (43), publisher, 10, Portland Place, St. John’s Wood, and Mrs. Annie Besant, Journalist, 1, Oaklands, Mortimer Road, St. John’s Wood, were brought up on a warrant at the Guildball Police Court, London, yesterday, before Mr. Alderman Figgins, on the charge of selling and publishing, in the city of London, on the 24th of March last, a certain obscene book – Mr. Bradlaugh, who was provided with a large number of law books, defended himself and Mrs. Besant; and Mr. Touzeau Parris, the secretary of the Defence Committee, watched the case. 
      Mr. Bradlaugh and that he might state for the information of the magistrate that a portion of his defence would involve the calling of a large number of witnesses. He would suggest that only formal evidence should be given, and the case then adjourned for as long a time as possible for the issue of Crown Office subpoenas to about forty witnesses.
      Mr. Martin, the chief clerk, said that was the course they intended to pursue.
      Detective Summands said that on Saturday, the 24th of March, he went to the Freethought Publishing Office, in Stonecutter Street, Farringdon Street, when he saw the defendants on the ground floor. He spoke to Mrs. Annie Besant, and asked her for the pamphlet entitled “Fruits of Philosophy.” Mr. Bradlaugh was behind the counter by her side, and could hear what was said. She gave him the book produced, for which he paid 6d. He left the shop, and subsequently returned on the 29th of March with Detective Williams, who purchased another copy of the same work, but neither Mr. Bradlaugh nor Mrs. Besant were present; consequently he obtained it from the shopman.
      Mr. Bradlaugh: Are you aware the previous notice had been given by me of my intention to sell the pamphlet, and that I intimated to the chief office of the detective department at Old Jewry that I should sell it on the 24th March? Yes, that is so.
      Detective Williams said that on Saturday, the 24th March, about five o’clock in the evening, he went to the shop, 28, Stonecutter Street, Farringdon Street, where he saw both defendants behind the counter. He asked Mrs. Besant for the “Fruits of Philosophy,” which she supplied him with on the payment of 6d. There were several other persons in the shop.
      Mr. Martin, the chief clerk, asked Mr. Bradlaugh if he had any question to ask, and on his replying in the negative, the same question was put to Mrs. Besant.
      Mr. Bradlaugh said that Mrs. Besant had left her defence entirely in his hands.
      Mr. Bradlaugh said he maintained, whether rightly or wrongly, that the book was not an obscene book, and he wished to have the case properly tested. For that purpose he sent notice to the chief office, to the City solicitor, and to this justice room, stating what he was going to do on the 24th of March.
      Alderman Figgins said it appeared to him that this was not a case for a warrant, but for a summons. 
      Mr. Martin (chief clerk) said it was the usual course.
      Mr. Bradlaugh said he had no right to complain, and he did not complain, and he must say that he had been treated by the police with the greatest courtesy consistent with the fact of the capture.
      Alderman Figgins then said that he should adjourn the case until Tuesday, the 17th inst., and admit the defendants to bail, in two sureties of £100, each, and themselves in £200, each.
      
      					*************
      WATCHES, CLOCKS, AND JEWELLERY. – A splendid assortment of the newest and most elegant designs. Quality and durability guaranteed. The best value to be had. Fixed cash price in plain figures. Hardy and Marsh [1], New Street, (nearly opposite the Theatre Royal), Birmingham.      	
