THE BRADLAUGH-BESANT PROSECUTION.
	The further hearing of the case was resumed yesterday morning by Mr. Bradlaugh continuing his address to the jury. He submitted that the essay indicted was an essay on the population question; secondly, that the subject was one lawfully to be discussed; thirdly, that it could be proved over and over again that over population was the fruitful source of poverty, ignorance, crime, vice, and misery, and that therefore the advocacy of prudential checks to population was not merely lawful but was highly moral. There was not one sentence in the essay directed against marriage. It was amongst the poor that over-population was most felt, and that was moral which produced the greatest happiness to the greatest number without injury to anyone. It was no ground against him to say that some time or other that some people might do something he had not recommended under circumstances that was never intended, and make that the basis for indicting him. The pamphlet did not go beyond anything that was necessary or legitimate for the poor of England. Over population was also the cause of immorality. He had a wearisome task before him, for he had to go through the greater portion of the pamphlet to show them that there was not a solitary syllable on which the Solicitor General could put his hand but which was clearly written, carefully written, and painstakingly put, with a view of avoiding any sort of morbid excitement, allurement, or inducements. There was nothing in the book but would be found in the books for the higher classes. Mr. Bradlaugh then at considerable length compared the language of his book with that to be found in the standard medical works on the same subject. “Carpenter’s Physiology” was a prize book given in the Government schools to both boys and girls, which went more fully into the subject then did Knowlton in the pamphlet in question. He held a copy of Carpenter in his hand, which stated on the fly sheet that it was presented to the students by Sir John Lubbock in the presence of the learned recorder of London, who charged the jury against him on this indictment; whilst the solicitor general was the legal advisor of the Government who countenanced its circulation and study, and at the same time prosecuted him for doing what he and the Government countenanced. It was monstrous to charge him with having committed a criminal offence in publishing a book that was chaste in comparison with “Carpenter’s Physiology,” placed by the Government in the hands of boys and girls to study. 
 	The Lord Chief Justice interposed, observing that the Solicitor-General’s contention was that details essential in a medical book were unnecessary in a book for the public, and might have an evil tendency. 
	Mr. Bradlaugh said the contents amounted to this, that a rich lady might obtain from her physician knowledge which it was criminal to communicate to the poor, to whom it was more essential. 
 	Mrs. Alice Vicary, the first lady admitted to the Pharmaceutical Society, examined by Mrs. Besant, deposed that she had examined the book, and considered it fit for general circulation. 
 	Dr. Drysdale said he did not considered there was anything prurient in the work. 
 	Mr. Bohn, publisher of “Carpenter’s Physiology” and other medical books, stated he had never restricted their circulation. 
 	The Lord Chief Justice will sum up today.
