	THIS country has long stood pre-eminent among the nations for its love of fair play in all matters connected with criminal jurisprudence. No matter what may be the social position of the individual, if there is but a mere scintilla of reason or right on his side, there will be a party of sympathisers ready to “throw up their greasy hats,” and demand that full justice shall be done. When Mr. WILKES, an alderman of London, was tried in 1764, for publishing an obscene poem entitled “An Essay on Woman,” he had a strong party of sympathisers at his back, partly because he had attacked Lord BUTE in the North Britain; THOMAS PAINE, in 1792, for publishing “The Rights of Man,” was tried and found guilty, and he also had his body of sympathisers; two years after that HORNE TOOKE, THELWALL, and others underwent the same ordeal for high treason, but were acquitted; in 1809 the famous WILLIAM COBBETT, a Radical of Radicals, and the most conceited man of his time was convicted of libel, and his followers and disciples might have been reckoned by tens of thousands; in 1817, WILLIAM HONE, the Baptist, was put upon his trial for parodying sacred themes, and made one of the most successful and extraordinary defences on record, as his knowledge of books was far superior to that of either the Attorney or Solicitor-Generals who were as mere playthings in his hands, and he was acquitted, to the great chagrin of Lord ELLENBOROUGH; in 1819, CARLILE, the bookseller, of Fleet-street, was prosecuted for publishing PAINE’S “Age of “Beason,” and found guilty; in 1831, ROBERT TAYLOR, the “Devil’s Chaplain,” was convicted for reviling the name of our REDEEMER, as he had been four years previously for blasphemy. All these notorious characters had numerous disciples and followers, who formed a sort of unorthodox public opinion in their time, like CHARLES BRADLAUGH and ANNIE BESANT have in the present day. It will be noticed that in all the cases cited no woman appears in the list, and ANNIE BESANT has the doubtful merit of being the first female who has figured in this sort of warfare against society. There can be no doubt that CHARLES BRADLAUGH has a considerable following among the half-instructed classes of this country, who “see through a glass darky,” and that he is a man of considerable ability and courage, which he unfortunately devotes to the negation of all that is most cherished in government and religion. The perfect frankness of his character was the subject of remark by the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE, and if he had not defied the law he would have escaped, as well as his “philosophical” female partner in the recent trial. The open and shameless sale of his “Fruits,” however, will have convinced him by this time that, whatever may be the amount of liberty conceded to every British subject, it will not be allowed to degenerate into license. A love of opposition to the received opinions of society in religion and government seems to be at the bottom of the tactics of BRADLAUGH and BESANT; but perhaps they will modify their opinions after their six months’ absence from so-called halls of science.  
