THE BRADLAUGH TRIAL.
	The hearing of the indictment against Mr. Charles Bradlaugh and Mrs. Annie Besant for the publication of an alleged obscene work, entitled “The Fruits of Philosophy,” was resumed, yesterday morning, in the Queen’s Bench Division of the High Court of Justice before the Lord Chief Justice and a special jury.
	Mrs. Besant continued her address to the jury, taking up the Mathusian theory with which she was dealing when the court rose on Monday, and she excused herself for dwelling on this matter by declaring the importance of the issue, and stating that she had just received a letter from Professor Bain, who spoke of the present trial as one of the most critical trials in the history of our liberties. Mrs. Besant proceeded to quote Malthus and Darwin on the positive or death-producing checks to population, such as famine, pestilence, war and disease, and trusted that the jury would give the population a chance of adopting a scientific check, which meant happiness and comfort in the home. Quoting Montagu Cookson on the question of population. She said that authority had stated in the Fortnightly Review that if there were no counteracting forces sooner of later the time would come when this little island would be over-stacked to such a degree that the great bulk of the inhabitants would be unable to secure the bare necessaries of life. It must be borne in mind on this point that in 1821 the population of England was 12,000,236 and that in 50 years, or in the year 1871, that number was found to have increased to 22,712, 260. The justification of the pamphlet that was the subject of this trial was the terrible nature of the checks which existed on every side. There was the check of overcrowding and with reference to that they proposed to call the Rev. Stuart Headlam, of Bethnal Green and several other clergymen of the Church of England, who would give their own experience as to the terrible results of overcrowding. Mrs. Besant quoted the Bishop of Manchester with regard to the demoralizing effect of overcrowding on young people, irrespective of its aspect in reference to the death rate. She had herself witnessed four generations of human beings and three young men lodgers all occupying the same room, and divided into two or three beds. They had all heard of the baby-farming cases, and the horrible facts revealed in connection with these matters had brought herself and Mr. Bradlaugh to the distinct conclusion that, however the trial went, it would be their duty steadily and persistently, in no spirit of defiance, but in obedience to the duty which every citizen owed to the country in which he was born, to press this subject right through on the attention of their countrymen, even if in so doing they had to pass through a prison. They would at last win, as every good cause did in the long run, against suffering, it might be, in the beginning, but to bring happiness to others after the suffering was past. The overlaying of children by their mothers was another check to the rapid increase of the population, and on this subject Dr. Lankester had stated that there were no less than 16,000 mothers in London who had committed murder. Mrs. Besant then went on to defend the preventive and indirect checks contained in the Knowlton pamphlet, and to urge the jury to do what they could, in giving a verdict for the defendants, to assist young men to honourable marriage, instead of the terrible substitute for wifehood to which the present state of society drove them. Dissipation was a terrible evil, but celibacy was also an evil, although the lesser of the two. Way, then, condemn as obscene the Knowlton pamphlet, which merely, and in dry physiological terms devoted itself to the curing of the two evils. The object of the book was not to destroy marriage and permit promiscuous intercourse, but to enable people to marry early, and at the same time avoid those evils which arose from over-population. John Stuart Mill Professor Leone Levi, and Mrs. Fawcett had all advocated the exercise of prudence in regard to the increase of families after marriage, and were, therefore, indirectly supporting Knowlton. Preventive checks were necessary to prevent over rapid child-bearing, from which much suffering and loss of health to the mother arose, also loss of health to the child at the breast, and the same to the child unborn. They were necessary in the case of persons in whose families there was a trace of madness, consumption, or other hereditary diseases, and they were necessary in the case women who could not give birth to healthy or living children. Mrs. Besant here stated that she had concluded her argument with reference to the first chapter of the book, and drew attention to the fact that it did not contain a single suggestion which could be called obscene. The Lord Chief Justice had ruled that it was the intention of the whole work which should be considered, but she contended that it was unfair that a most important chapter should not be accredited with purity.
	The Lord Chief Justice said that judging the chapter by itself there was not a word in it which could be construed into an impropriety or indecency, but it would have to be read with reference to the following chapter.
	Mrs. Besant said she would put it to the jury, not only that there was no impropriety in the chapter, but that it was against profligacy.
	Mr. Bradlaugh then commenced and continued his address until the Court rose.  
