
THE OREL TENNAM REFORM CLUB AND 
     THE “NATIONALREFORMER”
                To the editor of the Cheltenham Mercury
           Sir—when Coleridge wrote the lines commencing:- 
“There is a town, some men say Where nights more beloved then the day”
He certainly must have had the town and inhabitants of Cheltenham in view. Probably some specimen of the pious house hailing from there the path of the poet and from his strange assertions and opinion Coleridge may have formed an opinion of the natives generally; since such individual say for example sake as “R Edward” whose (unreadable text) lucubration’s on the above subject occupy a prominent position in your last (unreadable text).
Wonderful to me is the fact that man can be found who is not ashamed to see his name at the foot of such a precious documents more wondrous still, that should come from one whose work and interest in the temperance cause gave promise that his (unreadable text) should be taught (unreadable text) “temperate in all things” and to respect the opinions formed on religious matters by others, if they wished their own opinions to be respected.
This Mr. R. Edwards complains that the “National Reformer” edited by Mr. C. Bradlaugh and Mrs. A. Besant (whose (unreadable text) will doubtless be familiar to your readers in connection with the latest attempt of a Tory Government to stifle the rights of free discussion and publication of opinion and whom gallant stand thereon ought to elicit his praise instead of condemnation) is weekly promoted by a well known townsman to the reading room of the before Club Furthermore this sapient critic remarks that has  “ protested” against the reception of the gentleman’s gift and having carried his impertinence to the length of obtaining an interview with Mr. Lenthall learns to his disgust that “ the council of the club generally” are (unreadable text) enough to “sympathies with Mr. Bradlaugh” no withstanding this carping critic intrudes himself upon the Rav. Dr Brown, whose “representations” upon the matter would fall with a better grace, and carry more weight if coming direct than through such a (unreadable text) source. 
As Dr. Brown claims the right of private Judgment and “diments” from his fellows upon many points, it is not probable that he has (unreadable text) Mr. R. Edwards in his attempt to limit the reading and influence of a newspaper. The Dr. Brown whose discourses on toward the (unreadable text) and whose political address I have off times listened to, must have considerably altered to have even patiently endured Mr. Edwards presence on such a errand, and in all probability the Dr. told him what I think—that is was a grow importance upon his part to visit him upon such a senseless (unreadable text)”
Why may I ask did Mr. R. Edward of Tivoli cottage ventilate his grievance through your widely circulating columns? The remedy he held in his own hands my friend will readily place it to the account of my generous nature when I intimate to him—that he should have proposed at the quarterly meeting of members that’s censorship of the literature of their reading room was necessary after that he should have generously offered his service as censor enlarging upon his capabilities for the post urging as an additional reason for his election that he is the last specimen of fossilised wiggery extract. I don’t say that he would have succeeded, but you, Mr. Editor, whom I know to have an intimate acquaintance with the work of the American humorist will at once, recognizes the applicability of “house Biglow’s” lines to Mr. Edward’s case:-- 
			“The right to be a caused (unreadable text) is free
			From all devises human, And common as a (unreadable text) rule,
I think it was Dr. Johnson who describe a rogue as “a fool with a (unreadable text)” Certainly the gentleman who unlike many others has thrust greatness upon himself, will regret his public display of his ignorant intolerance and stupid bigotry had he sent his strange epistle to the (unreadable text) we could have understood the matter better Mr. G. J. Holyoaks has to thank that paper for his term in (unreadable text) goal. many of your readers will remember the disgraceful proceedings of Robert sole Lingwood and the supervision of Mr. Holyoske’s lectures as the Corn Exchange now the same spirit in is manifesting (unreadable text) I supposes their (unreadable text) Yes, Mr. Edwards may try but his “ partington mop” will avail him little. The reform Club will live and the “National Reformer” will be read, long after he has been swept into the (unreadable text) of oblivion.
For the sake of those like myself who like to speak of their birthplace with pleasure, and although living as a distance still return an interest in the political welfare of the town, let us hope we have heard at the last of this stupid case.
								Respectfully yours.
                                     					E. H. ROGERS.
II, Nutford Place , W
      
