SECULARIST philosophy is not much honoured in such of its highly developed fruits as have been investigated during the trial of the case " The Queen v. Bradlaugh and Another," and we fear that the demonstration thus afforded to the world of the goal to which people who would blot out God and religion from the universe are seeking to drive us will scarcely be taken to heart sufficiently to compensate for the flood of moral filth which the trial has been instrumental in letting loose upon the country. The doubts expressed by Lord Chief Justice COCKBURN as to the wisdom of such prosecutions are rendered deprecatory arguments of the strongest kind by the fact that, since Mr. BRADLAUGH and Mrs. BESANT were arraigned, the filthy pamphlet which was imported from America and published in this country has had its circulation raised from a few hundred copies to tens of thousands, and that many journals—with the Times at their head—have seen fit to reproduce long extracts from it in their reports of the trial. We confess we are somewhat at a loss to understand the peculiar constitution of mind which revolts in righteous indignation at the private circulation of a Confession manual among a few clergymen, and yet views with complacency the system under which the moral ordure served up in the case of Mr. BRADLAUGH and Mrs. BESANT has been spread out on the breakfast tables of thousands of English families. The verdict is not far out of keeping with this phenomenon. While the jury have declared their opinion of the book to be that it is calculated to deprave public morals, they "entirely exonerate the defendants from "any corrupt motive in publishing it." This is somewhat equivalent to a verdict of manslaughter in a case of alleged murder, and the "philanthropic" defendants are not likely to be very severely martyrized accordingly; but what disquiets us most is that a jury of twelve respectable Englishmen should see nothing culpable in the popularizing of ideas which, to put their effect upon morals entirely to one side, strike at the very root of national life, and are directly calculated to sap a
country's strength. However, it is something to have the veto of the law put upon the circulation of the hideous work in question, and we must make that reflection compensate, as far as it can compensate, for the mischief that has already been done by one of the most fetid of all the fruits borne by the tree of the knowledge of evil.  

