	NORTH MTTON CONSERVATIVE ASSOCIATION. A meeting of the members of the association took place on Tuesday evening, at Mr. Wrights’, Spring-bank Hotel. In the absence of the president (Mr. W. Horaley) the chair was occupied by Mr. C. B. Bell, who in opening the proceedings alluded to the lamented death of Mr. Ward Huut, which had taken place since the last meeting of the association. The Chairman alluded to the work of the session which had terminated to-day, and went on to speak in warm terms of the appointment of Mr. W. H. Smith as First Lord of the Treasury. In conclusion he moved “That this meeting of the members of the North Myton Conservative Association desires most heartily to congratulate the Right Hon. William Henry Smith on his appointment as First Lord of the Treasury, and on his unanimous re-election for Westminster.” The resolution was seconded by Mr. R. Doughty (vice-chairman), supported by Mr. Whitmore and carried unanimously. Mr. Whitmore then proceeded to read a paper on “the Burials Bill.” He remarked that he had begun to look upon this question as one between the Church of England and those who had acceded from her, but which if amicably settled would tend to the advantage of both. Mr. Whitmore then went on to give a sketch of the origin of churchyards, and touched upon the leading points of law relating thereto. From those points it appeared that every parishioner could demand to be buried in the churchyard, but not in the church, and the incumbent was bound to bury according to the rites of the Church of England, whether desired or not; and no person not in holy orders could read or take part in any burial service. The speakers then explained the nature of the Burials Bill brought in by the Government during the last session, and traced the progress of the bill in Parliament. After the defeat which the Government sustained upon Lord Harrowby’s clause, they found that they must either carry the bill with that clause or withdraw the measure; and it was eventually decided to withdraw it. He thought it a pity that the bill was not adopted with the clause, and while there would not have been any appreciable change there would have been one grievance the less to ferment Radical agitation. The real motive of not granting the concession was the fear that further demands would follow, and if this were so, these demands would be advanced sooner or later. The paper was listened to with great attention, and at the close Mr. Whitmore was loudly applauded. Mr. Hallam, in the course of some remarks, asked what it was that grated on the refined feelings of the Dissenters. He thought the service of the Church of England was as good as anything that a Dissenter could say, and was as well said. If every sect were granted the privilege of oration over the grave, he could not see why a Secularist should not demand that an oration should be delivered over his grave by Mrs. Besant or Mr. Bradlaugh (loud laughter and applause). Mr. W. Horsley (who had entered the room during the proceedings), spoke in defence of the Dissenting body generally, and expressed the opinion that they were the truest Protestants of the country. They did know what they wanted, and it was to be placed on an equality with other men. They did not wish to be snubbed by young curates fresh from college, and if there had been none of that sort of thing by the clergymen of the Church of England there would never have been a demand for a Burials Bill. The clergy might rest assured that nothing less than the satisfying of the Dissenters’ demands would settle this question. Mr. Horsley concluded by moving a vote of thanks to Mr. Whitmore for his kindness in preparing such an able paper upon a subject which had agitated the country so long. Mr. W. Paul seconded, and the motion, after being supported by Mr. Doughty, Mr. Hallam, and Mr. C B Bell, was adopted with acclamation. Mr. Whitmore acknowledged the compliment, and replied to various arguments which had been brought forward. The discussion then closed.   
