THE BRADLAUGH CASE. 
	Charles Bradlaugh and Annie Besant surrendered to their recognisances on Monday morning in the Queen’s Bench Division, before the Lord Chief Justice and a special jury, to answer a charge of having on the 24th March published an obscene book known to the public as the “Fruits of Philosophy.” Another indictment charged them with having published a similar book on the 29th March. The Solicitor General (Sir H. Giffard), Mr. Douglas Straight, and Mr. Mead appeared for the prosecution. Mr. Bradlaugh conducted his own defence and that of his co-defendant. The publication and sale of the book, which were not denied by the defendants, having been proved, Mrs. Besant addressed the jury at some length, and had not concluded when the Court rose. Mrs. Besant resumed and concluded her address on Tuesday; and Mr. Bradlaugh began his speech on his own behalf. Mr. Bradlaugh concluded his speech on his own behalf. Mr. Bradlaugh concluded his speech on Wednesday. Several witnesses were called for the defence, and the case was adjourned. The trial was concluded on Thursday. Mr. Bradlaugh having summoned up for the defence, and the Solicitor-General having briefly replied, the Lord Chief Justice said a more ill-advised and injudicious prosecution was never brought into a court of justice. When the Solicitor-General said the authorities were compelled to prosecute, he should like to know who the authorities were. The policeman seemed to be the prosecutor. So long as the Government thought fit to leave the administration of justice without a public prosecutor, so long every individual, however ill-advised, had a right to put the law in motion. He put it to the jury : Was the purpose advocated in the work, and the purpose for which the details were given, inconsistent with public morals? If the jury considered the offence made out, no conviction that the defendants had acted from a sense of public duty and a desire to do a public good could justify that which was wrong. The jury, after an absence of an hour and thirty minutes, returned, and the foreman said :-- “The jury are of opinion that the book is calculated to deprave public morals, but we entirely exonerate the defendants from any corrupt motive in publishing it.” The Lord Chief Justice directed the jury to find against the defendants, his lordship remarking that their exoneration of any corrupt intention would be taken into consideration. The jury accordingly found a verdict of guilty. The Lord Chief Justice then said :-- “Under the circumstance I will not pass sentence at present.” Defendants were released on their own recognisances to come up on Thursday next for judgment. The jury were hissed on retiring from the box, and the defendants were loudly cheered on leaving Westminster Hall. 
