TRIAL OF MR. BRADLAUGH
SECOND DAY – TUESDAY, JUNE 12TH
	The Lord Chief Justice took his ………………….. in the Court of Queen’s Bench precisely at half-past ten, and proceeded with the case of the Queen v. Bradlaugh and Another.
	Incidentally, and as a proof of the interest taken in the present trial, Mrs. Besant mentioned that she and her co-defendant has received a letter that morning from Professor Bains………….(check the name), who said that he regarded this case as one of the most critical trials in the history of our country. She then resumed her speech for the defence. She began by stating that on the previous day she had brought her arguments down to those respecting this necessity of making checks on the progress of population. Some of these she would characterize as death producing checks, they being those which Nature and Providence had interposed to arrest the too rapid Increase of mankind. There were also what were called restrictive checks. She should take up the considerations of those checks in order in some respects to meet the statement made by the Solicitor-General to the effect that the whole of this book was only a ………….. to cover that which was bad. Referring to the positive checks of population she said they arose from want of food, from war, which, in savage nations in particular, tended materially to destroying men in the prime of life, and from the hardships of daily life killing off the …………..and ……….. young. She read several extracts from the works of Darwin and others, and then proceeded to speak of the arrest of the spread of population in ……………….. nations, and which was beginning to prevail largely amongst …………………--infanticide. She also …………….. to the murder of the aged the moment they ceased to be productive. Turning next to the importance of introducing checks on population, she appealed to the jury to consider the destitution of the people having large families. It was to them (the jury) that the poor were looking, hoping that instead of ……….checks introduced by savage nations the country would give them each as were of a scientific nature. She then alluded to China as a nation where the people had been taught to foster early marriages, the result of which was the population had become excessive, as was shown by the ……………………………..for the present year; consequently the emigration of these people with depraved habits had produced a great social and political difficulty which required solution in America and Australia. The population of China they were told was more than 150 millions. The result was there was not food sufficient, and some families were so poor that they exposed their children in the streets with a view that they might perish. There was an enormous amount of infanticide in that country amongst the female children, and consequently there was a great spread of unnatural ………………….In America and Australia, where the Chinese immigrants had carried their immoral practices, the most …………………….complaints existed. In China also, besides infanticide, there was the check arising from inhaling opium. After a description of the effects of opium in respect to ……………….interests and the check it produces on the increase of population, she next addressed the jury on the checks of population in Europe. She pointed out how the population had increased of late years, and particularly during the past hundred years. It was, therefore, …………., she argued, that some restrictions existed in former times which were now almost unknown. For instance, now the sick were placed in hospitals, they were not allowed to perish, but rather to gain some degree of health. They then married, and transmitted to posterity unhealthy offspring. Sanitary laws had been taught, and instead of the people being carried off by plagues, their lives were lengthened, and diseases prevented. These and other matters were the reasons why population now increased. As time went on they would more and more …………..arbitration instead of war; more and more would they be able to discover means for grappling with disease; so that the time would come when they would perish for lack of food. Therefore the further they advanced in life the more imperative it was for them to adopt means for checking the increase of population. Addressing herself next to the question of witnesses, she expressed the gratification which she felt in the fact that two gentlemen, who would be called in support of some of the statements in the book in question, were clergymen. Others were medical man, who would corroborate what had been said about overcrowding. Dr. Lankester, for instance, had large experience of the parish of St. James’s, yet he told us that there was a surplus population of 10,000 in that district who ought to be removed for the benefit of the rest. It was not, she said, that she and her friends did not love children that this book was published, but because they has an affectionate interest in their welfare, and it was because she wished that young men and young women might be able to marry in the spring time of their life that she asked for the verdict of the jury, and that our streets might be purer and our homes happier. Sometimes they board of disinclination to marry by young men; but if the principles of the book before the court were recognized, such a disinclination would not exist. Referring next to profligacy she said it was the result of the present system of society, and had as it was celibacy was worse, for statistics showed that out of every 1,000 unmarried men 11.3 died annually, whilst of that number of married men but 6.5 died. Sir Benjamin Brodie had said that the evils of celibacy were too great to mention, therefore she hoped that the jury would agree with her that early marriages were best. Next followed a number of extracts from books on the importance of recognizing the future ………….. of the country if no check be imposed on the increase of population. These were followed up by reading the ……………………….of medical men on over-childbearing, and the mistaken idea that long nursing prevented pregnancy. In this part of her address she repeatedly urged the importance of giving married women physiological information. She then commented on the second chapter of the book, taking up the paragraphs consecutively. On this she argued that no physical truth could be a moral evil or in itself indecent. This Solicitor-General, however, had told them that if this book were placed in the hands of medical student it would not be obscene, but that a book which to a medical man was a decent book, a moral book, would be utterly indecent the moment it was placed in a girl’s school or in the hands of their parents. But in answer to this she would be able to show that Dr. Carpenter and Dr. Kirk has published works with plates which were immeasurably more obscene than the book in question; and what was of great importance, these books were sanctioned by the Government, with which the Solicitor-General had some connection, and were to be found in girl’s schools. If, therefore, she and her co-defendant were to be imprisoned or fined for publishing this book, she would urge that it would be only fair that my Lord ……………………….., my Lord Derby, and other noble lords of the Government, should also be made to appear before a jury, under the charge of circulating an obscene book. She then argued that young persons ought to be …………………..in physiology with a view to remove obscene thoughts. She thought that if instructions of this kind were conveyed—instead of leaving necessary knowledge to be obtained in other ways ---the mind, instead of being inflamed with sexual ………….., would be inspired with wonder at the power and operation of nature in working from such unlikely means. Another point of the Solicitor-General’s was that the placing of physiological knowledge within reach would provide opportunities for the moral to be no longer anxious to preserve their chastity. She denied the reasonableness of such an argument. Was the knowledge of poisons to be withheld from the people because they might use it in the destruction of the lives of their fellow…………………….Physiological knowledge might in some instances be misused, but in general it would be good. She would scout the idea that the chastity of the women of England was preserved by a fear of their becoming mothers under circumstances unsanctioned by the law. The chastity of the women of this country rested on higher ground than that. Having finished her reference to the second chapter of the book, she then called the attention of the jury to some other parts of the work; she remarked that it was written too ……………. and too old-fashioned to cause it to ………………for impure purposes. The other part of the book she would leave to her co-defendant. After some special remarks respecting ……………..31, 32 and 33, where special reference was made to a work by Dr. Schvasse concerning advice to a wife, she passed on to take up some more observations made by the Solicitor-General of an erroneous character, but which in his absence she would hope had not been seriously meant. She would repudiate the insinuations of that gentleman that she was guilty of very bad things in circulating this book, whereas she would point out the great good conferred by the publication of information which enlightened the mind and prevented much suffering. She would therefore put it to the jury whether she and her co-defendant could be chargeable for publishing a book which was likely to corrupt the young and demoralize society. Concluding what she had to say respecting the contents of the book, she next defended it from saying that it was published at a very low price. It was said that it was sold at 6d to anyone who from motives of curiosity or ……………….desire sought to possess it. Why, it was the glory of several publishing firms in London, that they were ………to sell books of information at a cheap price. Messrs. Cassell, Patter, & Galpin had of late published many books of a most valuable character for 6d or 7d. and there was no question there were books published by some London houses which contained information far more explicit than the one in question. she had herself sent to Longman’s for a book, merely enclosing stamps. The publishers did not write to her to enquire whether she was a married woman, and it came to her freely through the post, for it was not stopped, as another book had been. (Laughter) As to the sale of the book, they had ceased to supply hawkers, but its circulation since the 25th of March had been 125,000. After a rapid glance at the clock (3.24) she proceeded to bring her address to a conclusion, speaking with more emphasis and rapidity. Unless, she said, the jury found her guilty of intent to corrupt the young, and she could not think they would, she asked of them a verdict of justice at their hands. She had not published the book in ignorance, nor deny that she was a party to its publication. But she would deny and that most emphatically, as also witnesses would testify, that it was a book calculated to inflame the ………………….of the young. She held that it was one which would prevent much suffering and prove a benefit to mankind. She then sat down, having spoken for a day and a half.
	Mr. Bradlaugh then rose to open up his defence. He began by saying that he and his co-defendant never attempted to sell a single copy of the book before they sent word to the police office of their intention. After a few further remarks the court adjourned.   
