THE BRADLAUGH PROSECUTION.
SENTENCE.
	In the Court of Queen’s Bench, before the Lord Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Mellor, the Solicitor General, with whom were Mr. Straight and Mr. Mead, moved for judgment in the case of “The Queen v. Bradlaugh and Besant,” who had been convicted of publishing an obscene book.
	Mr. Bradlaugh moved to quash the indictment and arrest of judgment, on the ground that the indictment should set forth the words specifically, the words supposed to be criminal. They were not so specified, and the indictment did not set forth what they were called upon to answer. Mrs. Besant moved to quash the trial on the same grounds. After some discussion regarding the wording of the indictment, the Solicitor-General showed cause. He contended it was not necessary to fully set out the words of an obscene libel on the records of the Court. He also objected that the defendants ought to have demurred, and that having failed to do so, they were precluded from raising the point here. Mr. Mead followed on the same side. After some remarks from Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant in reply, the Lord Chief Justice, in delivering judgment, said the case was one eminently for a jury, and he saw no reason to set it aside, and there would, therefore, be no rule for a new trial or arrest of the judgment.
	The Solicitor-General then asked for judgment. After hearing affidavits put in by the prosecution in aggravation of punishment, and having heard Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant in reply, the Lord Chief Justice, in passing sentence, said that if the defendants had not defied the law by selling the book after the verdict, he would have discharged them on their own recognisances, but having done so, the sentence was that they each be imprisoned six calendar months, pay a fine of £200 each to the Queen, and enter into their own recognisances in the sum of £500 each to be of good behavior for two years. On the defendants pledging themselves to stop the publication until after the decision of the Court of Error, they were allowed to go on bail for that time in £100 each.

	DESTRUCTION OF A TORPEDO FACTORY.--- The destruction of the Russian torpedo manufactory at Cronstadt has proved more disastrous than was believed. A Cronstadt correspondent says twenty-five workmen are officially reported as missing. A large number of men were in the place, orders having been received to use all dispatch in preparing torpedoes for the Danube. The process of filling torpedo cases with gunpowder composition was being carried on, when a flame was seen at the end of the workshop where experiments with perixoline were being conducted. A stampede took place among the operatives. Some escaped, but before the greater number could get near the door the flames reached the gunpowder and a terrible explosion ensued. When the smoke cleared off, scarcely a vestige of the building was standing. Amidst the ruins of the outhouse the bodies of six men and the doorkeeper, with his wife and children, were discovered, but only a few scattered remains of the twenty five workmen known to have been in the building.   
