A PERSONAL EXPLANATION
	Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant attended before Sir Thomas Dakin, at Guildhall, in order to protect themselves in the eyes of the public and the Court of Queen’s Bench. Mr. Bradlaugh said that he and Mrs. Besant had been committed from this court for trial, and they were tried and convicted in the Court of Queen’s Bench, but pending an appeal from that conviction they were let out on their own nominal recognisances, they pledging their words of honour that they would do nothing, either directly or indirectly, to assist the publication of the “Fruits of Philosophy,” but on the contrary would do all in their power to suppress the sale of it. It had come to their knowledge that Messrs. Martin, Boundy, and Co., of 30, Ludgate-hill, were sending out circulars stating that they were ready to supply a copy of the pamphlet for private circulation for 80., the book having been previously sold at 6d. a copy. He went to them, and they assured him that they were not selling it. He was not satisfied with that, but caused a registered letter to be sent from the country to them asking for a copy of the book, and only two days ago he got the book send back by post. He made that statement on behalf of Mrs. Besant and himself, on that it might be publicly known that they were in no way parties to that notorious circulation. Sir. Thomas Dakin said he presumed Mr. Bradlaugh made this statement in defence of himself and Mrs. Besant to show that they had nothing to do with the circulation. Mr. Bradlaugh said that was precisely the case. They did not wish it to be believed that he and Mrs. Besant were taking advantage of their liberty to play fast and loose with the Court that had shown them so much courtesy. Mr. Thomas Dakin said he thought it was a case which the police ought to take up and look after those parties. Inspector Pitory said he would report the case to the commissioner. Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant thanked Sir Thomas Dakin for his courtesy, and retired.  
	
