

SOMETIMES surprises are not surprising. Lord REDESDALE'S denouncement of the vile book "The Priest in Absolution," was an instance of this. The book has been about for some time, and in the hands of a certain section of English clergymen has been made use of as a means of extending that clerical influence which has gone so far to undermine manliness as well as morality. We do not propose to gratify prurient curiosity by giving certain extracts from this book. We should just as soon think of printing that for the publication of which Mr. BRADLAUGH and Mrs. BESANT have been tried this week. What is needed is that all ever Great Britain a simple protest shall be made against priests gone mad. We are mindful of what we are saying. We know that very near us are priests having high notions of their office who are yet simple and pure, and whose lives are devoted to all kinds of good work. But what to them, and in their lives to others, may seem beautiful and good, is made poison by men who ape them. The one thing in the Romish Church which has always been most hateful to Englishmen is the confessional. In Popish days we did not take to it nicely, and since the Reformation we have always put up our back when it has been suggested as likely to be introduced. Now we find that English clergymen have a manual for use in the Confessional; that English clergymen use this manual, and that married women, young maidens, and even children, are subjected to verbal examination which, professing to be religious, is loathsome in the extreme. If one of ' our very high churchmen were to put some of the questions to an ordinarily healthy Englishman, the healthy Englishmen would become pugilistic, and the would be "priest in absolution" would find himself in the gutter. We suppose we must take these things as signs of the coming of those latter days when signs and wonders are to abound. We are yet thankful that family life is so sound with us that, except in certain effeminate men and inane women,--Whose disease is one which the French call (UNREADABLE TEXT) —we think with disgust and speak with contempt of such works as the " Priest in Absolution."
 Of the BRADLAUGH and BESANT trial which ended on Thursday afternoon very little need be said. The case was one which ought never to have been prosecuted. For forty years a small book, which few people read, and which few people cared to push about, had been printed and published in London. On the action of some- body, one may guess who, but we need not mention names here, a prosecution was started against Mr. WATTS,  Mr. WATTS pleaded guilty at once. Then Mr. BRADLAUGH took up the case, and dared the action of the Government Even then it would have been best to let Mr. BRADLAUGH "dare." The LORD CHIEF, JUSTICE says so.  As a result we have a verdict of guilty, which we suppose will result in no rough sentence, and those who prosecuted have helped what they pretended they wished to prevent.
