ARREST OF MR. BRADLAUGH
	At about ten o’clock yesterday morning Mr. Charles Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant, the well-known “Free Thought” advocates, were arrested by Detective-sergeant Ontram and Detectives Williams and Simmonds, if the City police, on a charge of printing and publishing a pamphlet of an alleged immoral character. The title of the work in question in “The Fruits of Philosophy,” and it may be remembered that a few works since Mr. Charles Watts, publisher, of 84, Fleet Street, was indicted at the Old Balley Sessions for issuing the same work, and he in consequence stopped its publication, besides paying the costs of the prosecution. Mr. Bradlaugh being dissatisfied with this result, and holding the opinion that as the subjects dealt with in the book were treated upon from a medical point of view, its contents were not objectionable, determined to re-issue the work at his own office, the Free Thought Publishing Company, 20, Stonecutter Street, and contest any proceedings that might be taken on that ground. When the new edition was issued Mr. Bradlaugh, it is stated, personally deposited a copy each with Mr. Martin, the chief clerk of the Guildhall Police Court, and the principal officer of City police detective department, and mentioned that in the event of proceedings being taken, he had no intention of evading the issue, and if arrested he hoped they would subject him to as little inconvenience as possible. The warrant, which is made out under Lord Campbell’s Act, was granted at the instance of the solicitor to the Treasury, and it is said to have been in the heads of the police authorities for nearly a week before the prosecution definitely decided upon the advisability of putting it into execution. The book which is the subject of the prosecution was, it is said, sold unchallenged for several years.
	At the Guildhall Police Court, London, yesterday afternoon, Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, No. 10, Portland Place, St. John’s Wood, publisher, and Mrs. Annie Besant, Oaklands, Mortimer Road, St. John’s Wood, journalist, were brought before Mr. Alderman Figgins on a warrant charging them with publishing an obscene book on the 24th of March last against the peace. Mr. Bradlaugh asked that only formal evidence might be given and the case adjourned, as he was not prepared with the witnesses for his defence. Wm. Simmonds, a city detective constable, said on Saturday, the 24th of March, he went to the Free Thought publishing office, at No. 28, Stonecutter Street, about twenty minutes to five o’clock. It was an open publishing shop. He saw the two defendants in the publishing office, and asked Mrs. Annie Besant for a pamphlet of “The Fruits of Philosophy.” Mr. Bradlaugh was by her side behind the counter and could hear what witness said. Besant gave him the book, and he gave her 1d and received 6d. change. On the 20th of March he went there again and purchased another copy of the work from a young man in the shop, but neither of the defendants were there. By Mr. Bradlaugh: I was aware that you had given motion to the chief office of the city police that you would attend at your shop on the 24th of March and sell the book from four to five o’clock. Edwin Williams, detective officer of the City police, said that on Saturday, the 24th of March, about five o’clock, he bought a copy of the book from Besant, the other defendant standing by at the time. Simmonds recalled: He produced two memorandums – one addressed to Detective-sergeant Green, at Old Jewry, and one to Mr. Martin, chief clerk, Guildhall. He also produced a copy of the National Reformer, in which he advertised for persons to come forward to be bail for him in the event of his being arrested. Mr. Bradlaugh said he maintained, whether rightly or wrongly, that the book was not an obscene book, and he wished to have the case properly tested. For that purpose he sent notice to the chief office, to the city solicitor, and to this justice room, stating what he was going to do on the 24th of March. Mr. Alderman Figgins said it appeared to him that this was not a case for a warrant, but for a summons, Mr. Martin (chief clerk) said it was the usual course. Mr. Bradlaugh said he had no right to complain of that, and he did not complain; and he must say that he had been treated by the police with the greatest courtesy consistent with the fact of the capture. Detective-sergeant Outram then proved the arrest of the prisoners, and also that he went there with a search-warrant. When he saw Mr. Bradlaugh he said there were no books there that would come under the search-warrant. He had only five copies of the work at his private residence, and those he should require for his defence. He then took the two defendants to the Bride-well Police Station, where they were charged. Mr. Alderman Figgins suggested that they had gone as far as they could at present, and that they had now better remand the case. Mr. Bradlaugh said that was what he wished, and he would ask for as long as adjournment as possible, as he had about forty witnesses to call for his defence, many of whom were medical men, and it would take some time to serve them. Alderman Figgins said that as he should admit them to bail he could have an adjournment for as long as he wished. He presumed the defendants were prepared with bail. Mr. Bradlaugh said he had about sixteen persons present who were willing to become bail. Mr. Martin said he had received four telegrams from Mr. Bradlaugh’s friends in the country offering to become bail, Mr. Alderman Figgins then said that he would adjourn the case until Tuesday, the 17th instant, and admit the defendants to bail in two sureties of £100 each and themselves in £200 each. Dr. C. R. Drysdale, of Woburn Place, and Mr. Joannes Swangman, of 26, Featherston Street, became bail for Mrs. Annie Besant; and Mr. Edward Truelove, of 256, High Holborn, and Mr. Wm. Bell, of 44, Great Queen Street, Lincoln’s Inn Fields, bailed Mr. Bradlaugh. The parties then left the Court. 	
