PROSECUTION OF MR. BRADLAUGH
Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, the editor, and Mrs. Annie Besant, sub-editor of the National Reformer, were arrested on Thursday morning on a charge of publishing what is alleged to be an immoral book. The work is a pamphlet by the late Charles Knowlton, MD., entitled “The Fruits of Philosophy,” which deals with the Malthusian theory as to population, and it is sold by the defendants at the offices of Freethought Publishing Company. Some few weeks ago Mr. Charles Watts, who is a freethought lecturer and publisher, was indicted of the Old Bailey for a like offence; and on his pleading that the work had been sold unchallenged for many years by him and others, and that he had not therefore taken the trouble to peruse it, but that as soon as the proceedings were commenced against him he had diligently read it, and found that he could not conscientiously defend it, and had thereupon stopped its sale, he was left off on payment of costs, amounting to something like £200. Upon this Mr. Bradlaugh openly announced his intention to reprint and publish an edition of the work, as he considered that so far from containing anything of an objectionable nature it dealt with matters of vital importance, and was really conducive to the best interests of society, and that in its prosecution and suppression a blow was dealt to the freedom of the press. He therefore said he was determined to contest the legality of the prosecution, and about a fortnight ago commenced publishing what he called an amended edition of the work. Since that time many thousand copies of the work have been sold by Mr. Bradlaugh and his assistants, and the first two copies of the new edition he delivered personally to Mr. Martin, the Chief clerk at the Guildhall Police-court, and to the authorities at the City detective office, at the same time stating to the latter that if it was found necessary to arrest him he hoped they would do so at as convenient as hour as possible, to avoid the unpleasantness of his passing a night in a police cell. It appears to have been found necessary to arrest the defendants, which was done about ten o’clock on Thursday morning.
Mr. Bradlaugh was brought up on Thursday before Alderman Figgens at the Guildhall police court. The further hearing of the case was adjourned until the 17 Inst.          

