THE TRAL OF MR. BRADLAUGH
The trail of Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant was resumed on Tuesday in the Court of Queen’s Bench. Mrs. Besant continued her address, arguing that as the natural checks on population --- war, famine and disease --- were removed, it was necessary that scientific checks should be substituted. Proceeding to treat of the Darwinian doctrine of the survival of the , the Lord Chief Justice remarked it was well worthy of Mr. Darwin's consideration whether, while in the struggle for existence, a still higher and more gifted race might come in the similar number, yet the effect upon the masses might lie deteriorating. Mr. Besant observed that Mr. Darwin's theory could only apply to man on the supposition that the weakly, the aged, and the star wing were allowed to die without existence. She proceeded to point out the evils resulting from delaying marriage. and contended that celibacy on the one hand and profligacy on the other were far more productive of evil than early marriages. She deprecated the discussion of such subjects in magazines and the use of physiological works. In girl's schools, but she argued a physical truth could not be morally evil. Mr. Bradlaugh than commenced his address until the court arose.

Mr. Bradlaugh resumed his address to the jury, on Wednesday and referred to the decision of the Lord Chief justice in the Queen v. Hickling, which has been several times quoted in the course of the case; but on the suggestion of his lordship that it was hardly worthwhile to continue to discuss the legal bearings of the case, he went on to submit a series of propositions, which he asked his lordship and the jury to consider, as they would govern the verdict in this case. He submitted the book was an essay on the population question, and that question was one lawful to be discussed; that it had been amply shown, and could be proved over and over again, that over-population was the fruitful source of poverty, ignorance, crime, vice, and misery; that therefore the advocacy of prudential checks to the population was not merely lawful, but was highly moral; that prudential checks were all birth-restricting checks that birth-restricting checks were by the delay of marriage or by restraint after it; that late marriage and celibacy, or general abstinence after marriage, involved horrible diseases and crime, and perpetuated social evils, He proposed to go through all the pamphlet, with the exception of that part referred to by his codefendant, and to make it clear to the jury, as he believed he should succeed in doing, that there was not a solitary syllable in it upon which the Solicitor-General could put this hand but what was chastely written and carefully put with a view of avoiding any sort of morbid excitement, improper allurement, or inducement. Mr. Bradlaugh went on to compare the language of several works with that of Knowlton's pamphlet, and read extracts from books, upon which girls and boys were examined in schools under the Science and Art Department by the orders of the very Government of whom the Solicitor-General was legal adviser, compared to which he said the language of the pamphlet under diicus3ion was mild and tame. The Recorder of London, who had charged the grand jury at the Central Criminal Court against him, had presented “Carpenter’s Physiology" to the pupils in a school.
The Lord Chief Justice said that the Solicitor-General 'contention was that the details essential in a medical book were unnecessary in a book for the public, and might have an evil tendency.
Mr. Bradlaugh said the contention amounted to this that a rich lady might obtain from her physician know a ledge which it was criminal to communicate to the Poor, to whom it, was more essential.
Miss Alice Vicary, examined by Mrs. Besant, deposed that she had examined the book, and considered it fit for general circulation.
Dr. Drysdale said he did not consider there was anything prurient in the work. Mr. Bohn, publisher of "Carpenter's Physiology," and other medical works, stated he bad never restricted their circulation.
The Lord Chief Justice will sum up to-morrow.
