“THE PRIEST IN ABSOLUTION.”

To the Editor of the BANBURY GUARDIAN.


	SIR, --At a time like the present, when all the London papers, and many of the provincial ones, are denouncing in no measured terms that filthy book, “The Priest in Absolution,” and the prosecution of Bradlaugh and Besant are engaging public attention, it may be well to draw the serious consideration of parents of families and guardians of children, to the necessity of watching carefully the persons who may be admitted as intimates of families, and public teachers in our large schools. Lists of the clergymen of “advanced views,” as they are called, are fortunately published now, and may be seen in the pamphlet styled the “Ritualistic Conspiracy.” Every father of a family should consult it before determining on one of the many so called middle-class schools, to which he may feel inclined to send those near and dear to him. It is notorious that at several of those schools, “confession to a priest (?)” is inculcated, if not enforced, and looking down the list of names. I find several as belonging to schools now much patronized. And are these the men to whom the consciences of the next generation are to be entrusted. Is this the training they are to undergo before they are set at large in a world full of temptations, having had ideas instilled into their minds from the earliest age, nay, almost before they are capable of understanding the full meaning of the questions put to them, which they might have long been strangers to, but for the questions put to them by men claiming “divine attributes” and supernatural power? And this, under the name of religion; On religion, under thy sacred name what enormities are committed! Can we wonder at scepticism and infidelity spreading abroad to pamper the filthy desires and carnal appetites of men who have professedly taken upon themselves the office of ministers of the gospel. “Members of the Holy Cross,” indeed! Could a greater insult be offered to the Cross than to have men of such a stamp and character enrolling themselves under its banner. Is this the teaching of the Protestant Church of England? Well may the Society have met with “closed doors” and under a “vow of secrecy” at their late meeting in Holborn. At least there appears to have been some little shame, and I hope an end will be put to the society, but above all to its teaching. Had the Bishops but done their duty at the earliest development of the Ritualistic movement, they would not have exhibited themselves in the pitiful position they now are, and we should not hear the continual cry we now so often listen to, “Of what use are Bishops,” Men, and particularly women, of England be advised in time. Look well about you. Take heed as to whom you trust the training of your young maidens; to you they look, and to whom should they or could they look so properly, and with so much confidence to be guided and guarded against the snares and sins of the world, as to the mother who bore them?
		I am, sir,
			Yours, & c., 
				A FATHER  
