	PROSECUTION OF MR. BRADLAUGH. Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant again appeared at the Guildhall on Tuesday on a charge of selling a pamphlet alleged to be immoral. Mr. Bradlaugh, who conducted his own defence, compared passages in the pamphlet with others which he marked, but which were not read, in the works of Malthus, Mill, Professor and Mrs. Fawcett, Dr. Acton, and others, and asserted that there was no more obscenity in the pamphlet than in these works. He stated that he should call medical evidence of the serious consequences resulting from the ignorance of some of the matters treated in the pamphlet. The case was adjourned till Thursday, when Mr. Bradlaugh concluded his address. He compared the pamphlet which he had published with passages which he pointed out in Carpenter’s Human Physiology, Dr. Chavasse’s Advice to a Wife, and other works, and contended that the common law never intended to bring such works within the meaning of those classed as “obscene.” As the Magistrates intimated their intention of sending the case for trial, Mr. Bradlaugh only called one witness, Dr. Drysdale, and asked him for his opinion of the pamphlet, as a medical man. Mr. Straight, who conducted the prosecution, objected to this question, and Mr. Alderman Figgins allowed the objection. He could not, he said, receive simple opinions, and this decision would apply to all witnesses of the same class. No more witnesses were called, but it was stated that Mr. Bradlaugh intended to make an application to have the case removed to the Queen’s Bench Division. Mrs. Besant, the female defendant, having read a long written statement urging the importance of communicating medical knowledge to the poor in a cheap form, the defendants were committed for trial, and bound over in their own recognizances to appear at the Central Criminal Court. 
	ROLLER SKATES – The Master of the Rolls delivered a judgment on Thursday of great importance to the proprietors of skating rinks throughout the United Kingdom. The suit was that of Plimpton v. Spiller, and his Lordship declared after the hearing of the evidence, that the Spiller and Wilson skates were infringements on the Plimpton patent, and granted a perpetual injunction to restrain their use. 
