
     “THE FRUITS OF PHILOSOPHY”—HEAVY SENTENCE
UPON MR. BRADLAUGH AND MRS. BESANT—In the Queen’s Bench division, upon Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant (UNREADABLE TEXT) up for judgment on Thursday, Mr. Bradlaugh moved to quash the indictment. On the ground that the words showing the obscenity of the book (“Fruits of Philosophy”) were not specified in the indictment. The court (the Lord Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Mellor) refused the motion. Affidavits were then placed before the court, stating that the sale of the work had been continued since the verdict of the jury had been given—Mr. Bradlaugh said it was true that they had circulated the book, and that they continued to do so.—The Lord chief Justice: I gave you fair warning what would be the consequences. The matter now assumes a very serious aspect; your language implies a determination, notwithstanding the verdict of the jury that the book is unfit for publication, of your intention to persist in its circulation. the case now assumes a very grave aspect indeed.—Mr. Bradlaugh said he had not got an ultimate decision of this court has been given, yet you still violate the law. If you had shown a disposition to respect that decision, the court would have been disposed to take a more indulgent view of the matter; but when the law is openly violated the case assumes a different aspect, and it must be treated as a very grave and aggravated case,--Mrs. Besant said she did not say that she had any intention to break the law. If other charges were to be brought against her they should be proved,--Mr. Bradlaugh said he and his co-defendant were ready to enter into an understanding not to publish the book further during the time it would occupy to have a decision on the case in a court of error, and therefore he would ask their lordship to stay their sentence until after that had been done;--The Lord Chief Justice; we must pass sentence, but we may stay its execution upon terms not to further publish the work. Have you anything further to say?—Mr. Bradlaugh: Only simply submit myself for sentence,--Mrs. Besant: I have nothing to say in mitigation of punishment,—The Lord Chief Justice: this case has now assumed a character of very, very grave importance. We were prepared. If the defendants had openly announced in this court that, having acted in error, as the jury found—if you had been ready to submit to the law, and to do everything in your power to prevent the further publication and circulation of the work, we might have been prepared to discharge you on your own recognisances to be of good behaviour in the future. But we cannot but see in what has been said and done pending this trial and since the venlict of the jury was pronounced, that, instead of submitting to the law, you are determined to set it at defence by continuing the circulation of the book. The sentence, therefore is that you, Charles Brdlaugh, and you, Anne Besant, be imprisoned for a period of six months each; that you each pay a fine of £200 to the Queen: and that you each enter further into your own recognisances in the sum of £500 to be of good behaviour for the term of two years, No one in this country is above the law. Alts owe obedience to it, from the highest to the lowest, and if you chose to set the law at defiance you must expect to be dealt with accordingly,--Mr. Bradaugh: will your Lordship stay execution of the sentence to allow me to bring a writ of error?—The Lord Chief Justice: certainly not on consideration, if you will pledge yourselves unreservedly that there shall be no further publication and circulation, of the book in the (UNREADABLE TEXT) we will consider your application,--Mr. Bradlaugh said he was ready to make the promise, and did so in the most unreserved manner, and that he would engage to prosecute the appeal without delay, --Mrs. Besant said she would enter into the same undertaking.—Ultimately the court stayed execution, and the defendants were allowed to go at large on entering into their recognisances of £100 each. 
