THE PROSECUTION OF MR. BRADLAUGH
	In the Queen’s Bench Division, yesterday, before Lord Justice Cockburn and Mr. Justice Mellor, Mr. Bradlaugh moved for a writ of certiorari to bring up the joint committal of himself and Mrs. Annie Besant, in order that it might be tried in this division before a special jury. The grounds upon which he asked their lordships to grant him the writ of certiorari were, in the first place, that the question to be determined was peculiarly one to be tried by a special jury. He and his co-defendant maintained that the publication in question was a scientific treatise upon the population of the country, and Lord Campbell, speaking in his place in Parliament, had stated that the law was only intended to apply to works written for the single purpose of corrupting the morals of youth, and which were of a nature to shock the sense of decency of a well-regulated mind, and that the nature of the work was a question to be decided by a jury. When before the magistrate he had proposed to put in a great body of scientific evidence to show that the subject of the work had been treated of by men of the highest reputation, and that it contained scientific matters dealt with for a scientific purpose; but that evidence, being objected to by the counsel for the prosecution, had been rejected by the magistrate. He sought to have the question of the admissibility of the evidence determined by a superior court.
	The Lord Chief Justice: The fate of this application must depend upon the real and true nature of this work. If upon looking at it we think that its object is the legitimate one of promoting knowledge upon a matter of public interest, then we should be inclined to prevent the occurrence of a miscarriage of justice, by allowing the case to be tried before a special jury. If, on the other hand, we think that the scientific character attributed to the work is a mere pretence and cover for indecency, we shall allow the ordinary procedure to prevail, and the case must be tried in the Central Criminal Court, in due course. It appearing that this is a bona fide attempt to determine the character of the work, the defendants may remain on bail on their own recognisances.

Judgment postponed. 

