CONVICTION OF MR. BRADLAUGH AND MRS. BESANT
(By Telegraph)

	Yesterday, in the Queen’s Bench Division, the trial of Mr. C Bradlaugh and Mrs. Annie Besant, for publishing an immoral book, called the Fruits of Philosophy, was resumed. 
	At the outset, a note was handed from certain members of the jury to the Lord Chief Justice.
	The LORD CHIEF JUSTICE – It is not consistent with our proceedings to put any question to a person who is on trial. It is a very pertinent and natural question to put; but, as I have said, I cannot depart from the ordinary rules in this case.
	Mrs. Besant then reviewed the case, contending that her object was laudable and beneficial to society. Whatever the jury might; say, history would declare that this man and this woman standing before them, knowing the misery of their lives, the starvation of their fellow creatures, and the overcrowding of the poor, joined hands together to fight against the prejudice of the times. History would say to her and her co-defendant, “Well done,” whatever the jury might say.
	Mr. Bradlaugh also spoke; after which,
	The SOLICITOR GENERAL briefly but tersely summed-up the case on behalf of the prosecution (the municipal authorities of London).
	The LORD CHIEF JUSTICE of ENGLAND, in his charge to the jury, said a more ill-advised, injudicious prosecution was never brought into a Court of Justice. When the Solicitor-General said the authorities were compelled to prosecute, he should like to know who the authorities were? The policeman seemed to be the prosecutor. So long as the Government thought fit to leave the administration of justice without a Public Prosecutor, so long every individual, however ill-advised, had a right to put the law into operation. As to this case, he put it to the jury. Was the purpose advocated in the work, and the purpose for which the details were given, inconsistent with public morality?
	The jury, after an absence of an hour and a half, returned, and the foreman, said. The jury are of opinion that the book is calculated to deprave public morals, but we entirely exonerate the defendants from any corrupt motive in publishing it.
	The LORD CHIEF JUSTICE. I am afraid, gentlemen, I must direct you on that to find against them. Your exoneration of any corrupt intention will be taken into consideration; but I must direct you on the special verdict to find against the defendants.
	The jury accordingly found a verdict of guilty.
	The LORD CHIEF JUSTICE- Under the circumstances, I will not pass sentence at present.
	The defendants were then released on their own recognizances to come up this day week for judgment.   
