THE ARREST OF MR. BRADLAUGH.
	Mr. Charles Bradlaugh and Mrs. Annie Besant (editor and assistant editor of the National Reformer), both well known throughout the country as Secularist lecturers, have been arrested on a charge of publishing what is alleged to be an immoral book. It is entitled “The Fruits of Philosophy,” and was previously the subject of litigation. Mr. Bradlaugh openly announced his intention to publish an edition of the book, and at once took copies of it to Mr. Martin, the chief clerk at the Guildhall Police-court, and to the authorities at the City Detective Office in the Old Jewry. The prosecution is instituted by the Crown under an old Act of Lord Campbell’s.
EXAMINATION AT GUILDHALL.
	Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, No. 10, Portland-place, St. John’s wood, publisher, and Mrs. Annie Besant, Oaklands, Mortimer-road, St. John’s-wood, journalist, were brought before Alderman Figgins on a warrant, charging them with publishing an obscene book on the 24th of March last, against the peace.
	Mr. Bradlaugh asked that only formal evidence might be given, and the case adjourned, as he was not prepared with the witnesses for his defence.
	Wm. Simmonds, a City detective-constable: On Saturday, the 24th of March, he went to the Free Thought publishing office, at No. 28, Stonecutter street, about twenty minutes to five o’clock. It was an open publishing shop. He saw the two defendants in the publishing office, and asked Annie Besant for a pamphlet of “The Fruits of Philosophy.” Mr. Bradlaugh was by her side behind the counter, and could hear what witness said. Besant gave him the book, and he gave her 1s. and received 6d. charge. On the 29th of March he went there again, and purchased another copy of the work from a young man in the shop, but neither of the defendants were there. By Mr. Bradlaugh : I was aware that you had given notice to the chief office of the City Police that you would attend at your shop on the 24th March, and sell the book from four to five o’clock.
	Edwin Williams, detective officer of the City Police: On Saturday, the 24th of March, about five o’clock, he bought a copy of the book from Besant, the other defendant standing by at the time.
	Simmonds recalled : He produced two memorandums – one addressed to Detective-sergeant Green, at Old Jewry, and one to Mr. Martin, chief clerk, Guildhall. He also produced a copy of the National Reformer, in which he advertised for persons to come forward to be bail for him in the event of his being arrested. 
	Mr. Bradlaugh said he maintained, whether rightly or wrongly, that the book was not an obscene book, and he wished to have the case properly tested. For that purpose he sent notice to the chief office, to the City solicitor, and to this justice-room stating what he was going to do on the 24th of March.
	Detective-Sergeant Outram then proved the arrest of the prisoners, and also that he went there with a search warrant. When he saw Mr. Bradlaugh he said there were no books there that would come under the search warrant. He had only five copies of the work at his private residence, and those he should require for his defence. He then took the two defendants to the Bridewell Police-station, where they were charged.
	Alderman Figgins suggested that they had gone as far as they could at present, and that they had now better remand the case.
	Mr. Bradlaugh said that was what he wished, and he would ask for as long an adjournment as possible, as he had about forty witnesses to call for his defence, many of whom were medical men, and it would take some time to serve them.
	Alderman Figgins then said that he would adjourn the case until Tuesday, the 17th inst. and admit the defendants to bail in two sureties of £100 each and themselves in £200 each.
	Dr. O. R. Drysdale, of Woburn-place, and Mr. Joaunes Swaagman, of 26, Featherstone-street, became bail for Mrs. Annie Besant, and Mr. Edward Truelove, of 259, High Holborn, and Mr. William Bell, of 44, Great Queen-street, Lincoln’s-inn-fields, bailed Mr. Bradlaugh. 
	
