THE PROSECUTION OF MR. BRADLAUGH.

	A correspondent writes to the Pall Mall Vasette :- It is said that a deputation from the Christian Evidence Society waited on the Home Secretary on Tuesday last to urge the Government to take up the prosecution, which Mr. Cross promised to accede to. Already a defence fund and committee have been organized and many pounds contributed. Mr. Bradlaugh announces his determination “to fight the case thoroughly, and naturally such a contest will involve considerable expense.” Among the names of the defence committee is that of Miss Fenwick Miller, who is a member of the London School Band. The following is Miss Miller’s letter to Mrs. Besant.
	To, Frances terrace, Victoria Park, March 31.
	My dear Mrs. Besant, I feel myself privileged in having the opportunity of expressing both to you and to the public, by giving you my small aid to your defence, how much I admire the noble position taken up by Mr. Bradlaugh and yourself upon this attempt to suppress free discussion, and to keep the people in enforced ignorance upon the most important of subjects. If is shameful that you should have to do it through the cowardice of the less important person, who might have made himself a hero in doing as you now do, but was too weak for his opportunities, since you have had to do it, however, accept the assurance of my warm sympathy and my readiness would in any way within my power in your fight. Please add my name to your committee. You will find a cheque within I wish I had fifty times as much to give. Under other circumstances the pamphlet might well have been withdrawn from circulation, since its physiology is complete, and consequently its practical deductions for some extent unsound, but it must be everywhere comprehended that, that is not the …………… The book would have been equally taken and its physiology been new and sound; the population is against the right to issue ………………..upon the special and ………………… and against the freedom ………………and individuals liberty—believe me, yours faithfully,      
	F Fenwick Miller 
	
