THE “FRUITS OF PHILOSOPHY.”
	Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant attended before Sir Thomas Dakin at the Guildhall Police Court, London, on Saturday, in order to protect themselves in the eyes of the public and the Court of Queen’s Bench. Mr. Bradlaugh said that he and Mrs. Besant had been committed from that Court for trial, and they were tried and convicted in the Court of Queen’s Bench, but pending an appeal from that conviction they were let out on their own nominal recognisances, they pledging their words of honour to do nothing either directly or indirectly to assist the publication of the book, but, on the contrary, to do all in their power to suppress the sale of it. It had come to their knowledge that Messrs. Martin, Boundy, and Co., of 30, Ludgate-hill, were sending out circulars stating that they were ready to supply a copy of the pamphlet for private circulation for 3s., the book having been previously sold at 6d. a copy. He went to them, and they assured him they were not selling it. He was not satisfied with that explanation, but caused a registered letter to be sent from the country to them, asking for a copy of the book, and only two days ago he got the book sent back by post. He made that statement on behalf of Mrs. Besant and himself, so that it might be publicly known that they were in no way parties to that nefarious circulation. Sir Thomas Dakin said he presumed that Mr. Bradlaugh made that statement in defence of himself and Mrs. Besant, to show that they had nothing to do with the circulation. Mr. Bradlaugh said that was precisely the case. They did not wish it to be believed that he and Mrs. Besant were taking advantage of their liberty to play fast and loose with the Court which had shown them so much courtesy. Sir Thomas Dakin said he thought it was a case which the police ought to take up. Inspector Pitney said he would report the case to the Commissioner. Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant thanked Sir Thomas Dakin for his courtesy and then retired. 
	On Tuesday Mr. Martin, of the firm of Martin Boundy, and Co. booksellers, of 30, Ludgate-hill, came before Sir Benjamin Phillips to endeavour to remove a stigma that had been cast upon that firm by the statement made by Mr. Charles Bradlaugh. They were not selling “The Fruits of Philosophy,” by Dr. Knowlton, which was a medical work, but “The Fruits of Philosophy,” by “Antipas F.D.,” which was a theological work. Sir Benjamin Phillips observed that it bore the same title as Mr. Bradlaugh’s book – “The Fruits of Philosophy,” Mr. Martin said that was so. When Mr. Bradlaugh called upon him he was assured they were not selling his work, and received a copy of the theological work. Mr. Martin then handed some copies of his work to Sir Benjamin for inspection. Sir B. Phillips said he had already expressed an opinion with regard to that book, and he did not intend to say anything more about it; but he thought that the applicant ought to get some other title for his work. Mr. Martin urged that one book was theological and the other medical, and they had nothing to do with each other. Sir B. Phillips said he could only say that if theirs was a good work it was a pity that it should bear such an unhappy title. He could say no more in the case.  
