	THE PROSECUTION OF MR. BRADLAUGH AND MRS. BESANT. Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant have determined to move to quash the indictment, and Mrs. Besant will also move to enter judgment for the defendants, non ………………………., on the ground that the verdict was really for them, as it expressly negatived any criminal intent. There will also be a motion made for a new trial, on the ground that the verdict was against the evidence. For the last two motions it was necessary to enlarge the time, as they must be made within four days of the trial. In the Queen’s Bench Division on Saturday, Mr. Bradlaugh in person applied to their lordships to extend the time for moving for a new trial in the prosecution of the Queen v. Bradlaugh and Besant until Thursday next, when he and his co-defendant are to come up for judgment. Mr. Justice Mellor: We grant your application. You are quite entitled to it. On Sunday night the New Hall of Science, Old Street, was densely crowded, it having been announced that Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant were to deliver addresses. Of the 600 persons who filled the hall, one third were women, many of them very young. Prices of admission ranged from 2d. to 2s. 6d. In the street were some 400 people who were unable to obtain admission. Copies of the “Fruits of Philosophy” were sold by the hundred, young women and lads purchasing largely. When Mr. Bradlaugh, Mrs. Besant, and Mr. Truelove, of Holborn, entered the hall they were received with great cheering. Mrs. Besant took the chair. She said that on Thursday Mr. Bradlaugh would move in Court, and on the same day she proposes to move that the verdict should be entered as a verdict of acquittal, as the word “guilty” was really not contained in the verdict. If she did not succeed in that, then she should move that the verdict be set aside and a new trial ordered, so that there should be a verdict one way or the other. If they failed on Thursday they should have to abide by whatever punishment the Lord Chief Justice thought fit to inflict. She was as loyal to the cause as ever, and would not flinch from the struggle. Mr. Bradlaugh, who was received with prolonged cheering, said he had received a letter from Joseph Garibaldi, at Caprera, adding his name to the Defence Committee.     
