THE BURIALS BILL.
To the Editor of The Daily Western Times.

 Sir,—Everyone imbued with Christian feelings towards our Nonconformist brethren, must rejoice at the measure of justice which the House of Lords has decided upon yielding to them, by triumphantly carrying Lord Harrowby's reasonable amendment to the Burials Bill of the percent Government.
 As Dr. Alfred T. Lee has published a statement in the Guardian that “more than half the English clergy, without any reference to religious or political party," have declared against Lord Harrowby, together with a long list (consisting chiefly of Canons, who have not, or ought not to have parochial cures) of those who take the uncharitable aids of the question. I have had the curiosity to investigate this list; and while, as might naturally be expected, I find each name as those of the rejected Bishop Jenner and the authoritatively condemned heretic Archdeacon Denison, it is a satisfaction to see that the list contains the names of only six or seven of the Evangelical party who consent to this unrighteous act; and it is evident that most of Lord Harrowby's opponents are to be found amongst that large colourless body of clergy who, like Gallio of old, care for neither Ritualists or Puritans at all.
It is indeed a sad spectacle to see that when the clergy of the Church of England had such & splendid opportunity of exhibiting the simplest principle of Christian justice ((UNREADABLE WORD) they are me fond of pretending to uphold as they ought to do) towards half the population of England who cannot conscientiously conform to the Established Church —so large a portion of them should display such feelings of bigotry and Intolerance towards  those who do not wish the service of the Church of England, beautiful though it be, to be performed over their dead. I have been a clergy man of the Church of England for nearly 40 years, serving in upwards of a dozen parishes in different parts of England, and have always been an uncompromising opponent of the Church of Rome; but I rejoice to think that the Protestant religion encourages me to pursue the twin paths of charity and justice, so that it would not affect me in the slightest degree to know that my neighbors, whether Protestant or Roman Catholic Nonconformists, were allowed, air assuredly they will  be the present Government non obstant, to bury the dead with rites of their own choice; cordially believing that such will tend to promote the principles enunciated by the Angelic host at the birth of the Founder of Christianity— "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men."
                                    Your obedient servant,
                                          BOURGHIAN WANT SAVILS, RECTOR OF JUNE 22nd, 1877.SHILLINGARD.
P.S,—The House of Lords has likewise deserved the thanks of every loyal member of the Church of England for its merited condemnation of that filthy book published by the so-called "Holy Cross Society," whose members are for more deserving of the felon's dock than  Mr. Bradlaugh end Mrs. Besant. I knew the author of this abominable work at Cambridge some forty years ago, the late Mr. Chambers, of St. Mary's Soho. I once had  occasion to read it for the purpose of review, and I can only describe its nature In the language of one of our Bishops, by saying that it was "ranking  with obscenity." and fully justified what the late bishop Bloomfield told his clergy in 1842, that " Auricular Confession was a practice utterly unknown to the Primitive Church, one of the most fearful abuses of that of Rome, and the source of unspeakable abominations" It would be well for the morality of our domestic hearths if every English parent, on finding any member of this degraded Society seeking to lead captive any of those " silly women " mentioned in 2 Timothy iii., 6, by weans of the confessional, would act on the advice given by St. John of the way to treat such designing and deceitful men—" Receive him not Into your house, neither bid him God speed: for he that. biddeth him God speed in partaker of his evil deeds."

