	There have been few purely domestic political mattes of interest. In June the Burials Bill was discussed by the House of Lords, when Lord Harrowby proposed a clause which he had moved in Committee, declaring that when the persons having the charge of the funeral of a person having a right of interment in any parish, signified their desire that such person should be buried without the Burial Services of the Church of England, the relatives should be at liberty to inter the deceased with such Christian and orderly religious services as they might think fit. The Duke of Richmond on behalf of the Government, opposed the clause but it was carried by 127 to 111. Ultimately the Bill was withdrawn, the Government pledging itself to bring in a measure with the same object next session. On the following day the Prisons Bill was read a third time. The year has been marked by many casualties, involving great loss of life. In January a fire in the Stonehill Colliery, near Bolton, suffocated eighteen people, and the same day a pit was flooded at Hamilton, in Lanarkshire, by which several lives were lost. A little later an explosion occurred at the Darcy Lever collieries, near Bolton, by which ten lives were sacrificed. Early in Marchan explosion of fire damp in the Worcester new pit, near Swansea, was attended by a loss of eighteen lives. In June, ten persons were killed and many injured by a boiler explosion at the Ravensdale Old Ironworks in North Staffordshire. In October, a colliery explosion at King Pit, Pemberton, sacrificed nearly forty lives. In the following month the terrible collision in the Channel between the Avalanche and the Forest caused the loss of over a hundred lives. This was, however, dwarfed by the fearful explosion in October of fire damp at the coal pits, Upper Blantyre, Glasgow, by which over 200 people were killed. Among the other events of the year may be mentioned the “Penge trial,” the trial of the Detectives and a Solicitor, and that of Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant.   
