       
       WHATEVER opinion may be entertained with regard to the character of the book for the selling of which Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant have just been found guilty, there are few persons who will dissent from the Lord Chief Justice when he declared that this was a most ill-advised prosecution. It is one of those actions which show still further, if additional proof were needed, how important it is that there should be public prosecutor. If there had been one these would have been no prosecution, and, a book in many ways objectionable would have remained In obscurity instead of being sold by the hundred thousand. We go further than that: we not only regret this prosecution, but we regret the verdict.  The question of over-population and the checks to it is (UNREADABLE TEXT) that ought to be open to discussion. We do not say that it should be discussed in a public journal; the man who buys a newspaper buys it in order to get news, and has a right to expect that delicate topics like the one in question should not be brought before his children unawares. But that the matter is one which may fairly be argued, we do not (UNREADABLE TEXT) how there can be any doubt ; and if so, and if the discussion is confined to books which are known to deal with it, so that a man buying any of them knows what kind of thing he is going to buy, we cannot see how public morals are injured Of course it may be that a book written ostensibly with one object may be really written with another, and that in author professing to deal with a subject belonging to the range of physiology and political economy is really seeking to corrupt youth and to incite is vice. But this does not seem to have been chargeable against Knowlton and his book. The Lord Chief Justice expressly exonerated him from charge of this kind, declaring it to be wholly unjust. Undoubtedly there are some minds which will find in the most strictly scientific (UNREADABLE TEXT) an incitement to lust ; but they will do (UNREADABLE TEXT) same with many of the stories contained in the Old  Testament ; and unless we are prepared to prosecute the   (UNREADABLE TEXT) society for selling a book containing the stories of Joseph and potiphar’s wife and of a Amnon and Tamar, and half a dozen other narratives of  the kind, we do not see the justice of the verdict which has been given against Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant This verdict seems to us, moreover, a very grave infringement upon the liberty of the press, and that is, perhaps, the most (UNREADABLE TEXT) part of the matter. If books may not be sold of course they will not be written, and to condemn (UNREADABLE TEXT) man for selling a book dealing with professedly open and arguable subject is to say that the subject ought not be discussed in print. That was the position taken up some centuries ago by theologians; they in their day would have as vigorously prosecuted as man who wrote a (UNREADABLE TEXT) discussing the Trinity as the prosecutor in the present instance has prosecuted Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant for selling “The Fruits of Philosophy” Englishmen long ago made up their minds that (UNREADABLE TEXT) theological topics were open questions, and there who came after us will, we doubt not, in spite of the verdict in the present trial, contend that it is both lawful and expedient that sexual (UNREADABLE TEXT) shall be open to discussion.
