ARREST OF MR. C. BRADLAUGH.
	Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, the editor, and Mrs. Annie Besant, sub-editor, of the National Reformer, were arrested at ten o’clock yesterday morning on a charge of publishing what is alleged to be an immoral book. The work in question is a pamphlet by the late Charles Knowlton, M.D., entitled, “The Fruits of Philosophy,” which deal with the Malthusian theory as to population, and it is sold by Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant at the Freethough Publishig Company’s premises, Stonecutter Street, E.C., at the price of sixpence. Some few weeks ago Mr. Charles Watts, of 84, Fleet Street, who is also a freethought lecturer and publisher, was indicated at the Old Bailey session for a like offence; and on his pleading that the work had been sold unchallenged for many years by him and others, and that he had not, taken the trouble to peruse it, but that as soon as the proceedings were commenced against him had diligently read it, and found that he could not conscientiously defend it, and had thereupon stopped its sale, he was let off on payment of costs, amounting to something like £200. Upon this Mr. Bradlaugh openly announced his intention to reprint and publish an edition of the work, as he considered that so far from containing anything of an objectionable nature it dealt with matters of vital importance, and was really conducive to the best interest of society, and that in its prosecution and suppression a blow was dealt to the freedom of the press. He therefore said he was determined to contest the legality of the prosecution, and about a fortnight ago commenced republishing what he called an amended edition of the work. Since that time many thousand copies of the work had been sold by Mr. Bradlaugh and his assistants, and the first two copies of the new edition Mr. Bradlaugh went and delivered personally to Mr. Martin, the chief clerk at the Guildhall Police Court, and to the authorities at the City detective office, at the same time stating to the latter that if it was found necessary to arrest him he hoped they would do so at as convenient an hour as possible, to avoid the unpleasantness of his passing a night in a police cell. It seemingly has been found necessary to arrest him, and, as will be seen below, he was brought up at the Guildhall Police Court yesterday.
	Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, of No. 10, Portland Place, St. John’s Wood, publisher, and Mrs. Annie Besant, Oaklands, Mortimer Road, St. John’s Wood, described as a journalist, were brought before Alderman Figgins at the Guildhall yesterday afternoon on a warrant charging them with publishing an obscene book on the 24th of March last.
	At Mr. Bradlaugh’s request only formal evidence was given, and the case was adjourned till the 17th inst., both Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant being admitted to bail. The former said he had forty witnesses to call, many of whom were medical men.
