ARREST OF MR. BRADLAUGH.
	Mr. Charles Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant, the well known “Free Thought” advocates, were arrested by Detective-sergeant Outram and Detectives Williams and Simmonds, of the City police, on a charge of printing and publishing a pamphlet of an alleged immoral character. The title of the work is question is “The Fruits of Philosophy,” and it may be remembered that a few weeks since Mr. Charles Watts, publisher, of 84, Fleet-street, was indicted at the Old Bailey Sessions for issuing the same work, and be in consequences stopped its publication, besides paying the costs of the prosecution. Mr. Bradlaugh being dissatisfied with this result, and holding the opinion that as the subjects dealt with in the book were treated upon from a medical point of view, its contents were not objectionable, determined to re-issue the work at his own office, the Free Thought Publishing Company, 28, Stone-cutter-street, and contest any proceedings that might be taken on that ground. When the new edition was issued Mr. Bradlaugh, it is stated, personally deposited a copy each with Mr. Martin, the chief clerk of the Guildhall Police-court, and the principal officer of the City police detective department, and mentioned that is the event of proceedings being taken, he had no intention of evading the issue, and if arrested he hoped they would subject him to as little inconvenience as possible. The warrant, which is made out under Lord Campbell’s Act, was granted at the instance of the Solicitor to the Treasury, and it is said to have been in the hands of the police authorities for nearly a week before the prosecution definitively decided upon the advisability of putting it into execution. The book which is the subject of the prosecution, was, it is said, sold unchallenged for several years.
EXAMINATION AT GUILDHALL POLICE-COURT.
	Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, No. 10, Portland place, St. John’s wood, publisher, and Mrs. Annie Besant, Oaklands, Mortimer road, St. John’s wood, journalist, were brought before Alderman Figgins on a warrant charging them with publishing an obscene book on the 24th of March last against the pence. Mr. Bradlaugh asked that only formal evidence might be given and the case adjourned, as he was not prepared with the witnesses for his defence. William Simmonds, a City detective constable, said on Saturday, the 24th of March, he went to the Free Thought publishing office, at No. 28, Stonecutter-street, about twenty minutes to five o’clock. It was an open publishing shop. He saw the two defendants in the publishing office, and asked Mrs. Annie Besant for a pamphlet of “The Fruits of Philosophy.” Mr. Bradlaugh was by her side behind the counter, and could hear what witness said. Besant gave him the book, and he gave her 1s. and received 6d. change. On the 29th March he went there again and purchased another copy of the work from a young man in the shop, but neither of the defendants were there. By Mr. Bradlaugh : I was aware that you had given notice to the chief office of the City police that you would attend at your shop on the 24th March, and  sell the book from four to five o’clock. Edwin Williams, detective officer of the City police, said that on Saturday, the 24th of March, about five o’clock he bought a copy of the book from Besant, the other defendant standing by at the time. Simmonds recalled : He produced two memorandums –one addressed to Detective-sergeant Green, at Old Jewry, and one to Mr. Martin, chief clerk, Guildhall. He also produced a copy of the National Reformer, in which he advertised for persons to come forward to be bail for him om the event of his being arrested. Mr. Bradlaugh said he maintained, whether rightly or wrongly, that the book was not an obscene book, and he wished to have the case properly tested. For the purpose he sent notice to the chief officer, to the City Solicitor, and to this justice-room, stating what he was going to do on the 24th of March. Detective-sergeant Outram then proved the arrest of the prisoners and also that he went there with a search-warrant. When he saw Mr. Bradlaugh he said there were no books there that would come under the search-warrant. He had only five copies of the work at his private residence, and those he should require for his defence. He then took the two defendants to the Bridewell Police-station, where they were charged. Mr. Alderman Figgins suggested that they had gone as far as they could at present, and that they had now better remand the case. Mr. Bradlaugh said that was what he wished, and he would ask for a long as adjournment as possible. Mr. Alderman Figgins said that he would adjourn the defendants to bail in two sureties of £100 each and themselves in £200 each. Dr. C R Drysdale, of Woburn-place, and Mr. Joannes Swangman, of 26, Featherstone-street, became bail for Mrs. Annie Besant; and Mr. Edward Truelove, of 256, High Holborn, and Mr. Wm. Bell, of 44, Great Queen street, Lincoln’s-inn fields, bailed Mr. Bradlaugh.
