SIR CHARLES REED ON SUNDAY SCHOOL
	NEWPORT  has been, during the Whit-week now drawing to a …………, the Asia Minor of social progress. Our columns have borne daily testimony to the good work being accomplished by representatives of the Ancient Order of Shepherds, and by local Newport ……………………on ……………. Whit-week the most enjoyable ……………… week in all the year a …………………….adaptation of the …………..picture of English pastoral life so bewitchingly sketched by TENNYSON in the May ………………….. While these soldiers in the army of social advancement have been ……………………….their forces under approved lenders, the Commander in Chief and the ………………officers of the Newport Sunday school Union, called a council of war on Thursday. Unlike the armies of Russia or Turkey, they seek to bind up not to desolate. No ……………..widow nor fatherless child wear the weeds of sorrow because of the march of the Shepherds, the Sunday-school ………………, nor the members of these …………………….”Institutions” of which Newport to its credit is the possessor. While the great guns those terrible emissaries of death and slaughter boom along the very shores of the Black …….., …………….. which the ………………….of the Old Testament sailed, and reverberate to the ……………….of Mount Ararat, on which the Ark of Father ………….reated, and from which the peaceful dove went fords on its …………………of peace, and love, and goodwill, while all this happens in the veritable Asia Minor, the Asia Minor of Newport has also had its great guns, but these have cultivated the ……………of oratory, the ordnance of the higher morality; and if the sharp crack of the rifle has been heard, it has been fired at thriftlessness, Godlessness, and indifference. The celebrity of the Newport Whit-week is Sir CHARLES REED, who may not inaptly be described as Field-Marshal REED, a ……….of VOX MOLTRE in the ever-growing army of workers for the common good. Sir CHARLES REED is the son of the late Dr. ANDREW REED, the well-known and honoured minister of Wycliffe Chapel, Stepney, London. Sir CHARLES REED ‘s father, however, is better known as the practical founder of the London Orphan Asylums at Chaplain and Watt stead; the Anylum for Fatherless Children, fleet at Richmond, and now at ………………, near …………………; the Asylum for ……………………, at Earlswood; the Royal Hospital for …………………, at Putney; and the Eastern Counties ……………….Asylum. This is a ………………of practical benevolence such as few Englishmen can ………………., and under the watchful eye of a large hearted a father, Sir CHARLES REED grew up to usefulness and the responsibilities of manhood. Early in life, as this biographer tells us, Sir CHARLES joined the staff of Sunday-school teachers connected with his father’s congregation. He was one of the promoters and most diligent workers of the Sunday school Union, of which he is ……….claimant – the governing and advising head, …… ………, of the ………existing Sunday-school system. Some of the most thoughtful papers contributed to the Sunday-school Union were from the …….of the Chairman of the London School Board, whose “…………………in the ……………,” and ………………..on “The ……………….Class in the Sunday-school, are known to every Sunday-school …………………………In public life Sir Charles has figured, ……………..without …………………., as a member of the Corporation of London, as governor of the ……………………………Irish Society (whose operation are in …………..), as ……………..of the executors of the late ……………………………… and as a member of Parliament …………………………of Hackney. Sir CHARLES ………………………………………not only to ……………………………………………….the gathering at Newport on Thursday, but ……………………………………………of South Wales. …………………………Welah Dry..................the ………………………………that the existence of Wales proceeded that of Eden itself, the Chairman of the London School Board pointed out, form his own experience, the progress Welah Sunday schools had made ……………….the last thirty of forty years. Then the lessons of the primer were common – now the Sunday schools take higher ground than the day schools, and consequently require a more intellectual and better trained class of teachers than in the past. It is not too much to say that the marvelous Sunday-school organization of to-day is the work of Nonconformity, and because that was historically the fact, the Church of England hesitated long before it followed in the right road, declaring that Nonconformists would use Sunday tracking to inculcate anti-Church and State ……… Sir CHARLES REED bears honourable testimony that this has not been the case, suggestively remarking that the short time at the disposal of Sunday-school teachers is put to better account. If, indeed, Nonconformists had thus sown the wind of opposition to the Church, to reap the whirlwind of disestablishment and disendowment, they would have been unworthy their good and great name. the base insinuation at one time sown broadcast – never had the least foundation Sunday-school teaching in Wales has had for its ………………….the elevation, and incorporation of the scholar into the vigorous life of Nonconforming Churches, and in this respect Wales has completely outstripped England in its Sunday-school work. While claiming for Sunday-schools a disciplinarian and law abiding influence ……. Illustrated in Lancashire, during the cotton …………..., Sir CHARLES pointed out the newer and higher infusion of Sunday-schools – namely, to consolidate the Protestant feeling of the country in opposition to Papal and other influences at work. “With regard (said Sir CHARLES REED) to the influence of Sunday-schools on religion, the cause of religion was safe in England, and when he said England he did not exclude Wales. But these were times of peril, when it was necessary that teachers should be very careful as to their instruction. They must possess an ………. into which they must take children, and prepare them for the struggle which they would have to engage as they grow into mature life. On the one side they had to combat infidelity, on the other Ritualistic and ceremonial. The infidelity denied the very being of a …….., and the Ritualistic ceremonial would not, in the spirit, he separated from pure Popery. These were the great evils against which they desired to guard their children, and to do this they must be taught the evidences of Christianity intelligently and thoroughly. Otherwise, how could it be ……………….at if the attractions of ceremonial should lead them away from the old paths in which their fathers and mothers had walked, and if the open and bold assertions of infidelity should have some weight with them, if the teachers had not furnished themselves with the means of answering such bold assertions. We think Sri CHARLES REED deserves great credit for resealing to us all STILL………………….dic…… that the Bible, and the Bible alone, is the Christian rule of faith. With the Bible thoroughly understood, and its morality and Divine promises sedulously taught to the vast thousands of Sunday-school children in the United Kingdom, there is, indeed, little to fear from Ritualists, Romanists, and followers of GEORGE JACOB HOLYOAKE BRADLAUGH, and Mrs. BESANT. That Wales and Scotland are in the right track is proved by the fact that while England gives almost daily hostages to Romanian, and Broad Churchism recurring hostages to real, although scientifically garbed, Atheism, the Nonconformists of Scotland and Wales into in their reaching, and belief in religion, free from ritual, ceremony, and man millinery- retaining their sheep in the fold, no way afraid of Monsignor CAPRL, Mr. TOOTH, of Hatchman, or …………….wolves of that class. No doubt, it is true, the Catholics, with a …………….appreciation of the vital forces of the future, are initiating the Sunday-schools of Dissent. For the good they may the accomplish Catholics are welcome to …………………: from the evil they meditate …………………nothing to fear. Turning to the secular aspect of Sunday schools, this is for more important than casual readers suppose. In a short time Dr. LYOX PLAYEAIR, the eminent educationalist, ……………….., there will be 00,000 certificated teachers in England and Wales. Five years ago, the certificated and un-certificated teachers in the country reached the astonishing number of 158,000. To these must be added the great body of Sunday school teachers. Let the reader fancy to himself what this army of skilled teachers will accomplish in the next 20years. England, by that time, is likely to undergo as great an educational revolution as occurred from the times of the Druids to the period of ALFRAD.       
