THE CHARGE AGAINST MR. BRADLAUGH AND MRS. BESANT.
Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, publisher, and Mrs. Annie Besant, journalist were brought up on a warrant at the London Guildhall, yesterday before Mr. Alderman Figgins, on the charge of (UNREADABLE TEXT) and publishing in the city of London. On the 24th March last, a certain obscene book. Mr. Bradlaugh, who was provided with a large number of law books, defended himself and Mrs. Besant; and Mr. Touzeau parris, the secretary of the defence Committee, watched the case Mrs. Bradlaugh said that he might state for the information of the magistrate that a portion of his defence would involve the calling of a large number of witnesses. He would suggest that only formal evidence should be given, and the case then adjourned for as long a time as possible for the issue of Crown office subpoenas to about forty witnesses, -- Mr. Martin, the Chief Clerk said that was the course they intended to pursue.—Detective Simmonds said that on Saturday the 24th March he went to the free thought publishing office in stonecutter street, Farringdon-street, and saw the defendants on the ground floor. He spoke to Mrs. Annie Besant. And asked her for the Pamphlet entitled “Fruits of Philosophy” Mr. Bradlaugh was behind the counter by her side. And could hear what was said. She gave him the book produced. For which he paid 6d. He left the shop, and subsequently returned on the 29th March with detective Williams, who purchased another copy of the same work, but neither Mr. Bradlaugh  nor Mrs. Besant were present, consequently he obtained it from the shopman,-- Mr. Bradlaugh : are you aware that previous notice had been given b me of my intention to sell the pamphlet, and that I intimated to the chief office of the detective department at Old jewry that is so, -- Mr. Bradlaugh said there were 12 or 14 gentlemen who were ready to become sureties, and repeated the wish that the magistrate would adjourn the case for as long a period as possible. As there were some forty person whom be wished to call, and he would, in the interim, have the opportunity of eliminating part of evidence so as to save as much as possible the time of the court. He would find the necessary to call Dr. Carpenter and several of the largest publisher in London on the part of the defence, and it would therefore be a matter of personal convenience to gentlemen whose time was much occupied if his worship could fix a time for the record hearing. The case was then adjourned until the 17th inst, at eleven o’clock. The gentlemen who were accepted as bail in £100 each for defendant appearance were Dr. C. R. Dryadale, Mr. J. Swagman, Mr. W, Bell, publisher. Of great Queen-street, (UNREADABLE TEXT) inn Fields, and Mr. A, Truelove. Bookseller, High Hebron. The defendants themselves entered into their own recognisances in the sum of £200 each.  
