      
      
      CHARGE AGAINST MR. BRADLAUGH AND MRS. BESANT.
      Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, publisher, and Mrs. Annie Besant journalist, were brought up on a warrant at the London Guildhall, on Thursday, before Mr. Alderman Figgins, on the charge of selling and publishing in the city of London, on the 24th March last, a certain obscene book, Mr. Bradlaugh, who was provided with a large number of law books, defended himself and Mrs. Besant and Mrs. Touzean Parris, the secretary of the defence Committee, watched the case.
      Mr. Bradlaugh said that he might state for the information of the magistrate that a portion of his defence would involve the calling of a large number of witnesses He would suggest that only formal evidences should be given, and the case then adjourned for as long a time as possible for the issue of Crown Office (UNREADABLE TEXT) about 40 witnesses.
      Mr. Martin, the chief clerk, said that was the (UNEADABLE TEXT) they intended to pursue.
      Detective Simmonds said that on Saturday the 24th March he went to the Free Thought publishing office in Stonecutter-street, Farringdon-street, he saw the defendants on the ground floor. He spoke to Mrs. Annie Besant, and asked her for the pamphlet entitled “Fruits of Philosophy” Mr. Bradlaugh was behind the counter by her side, and could hear what was said. She gave him the book produced, for which he paid 6d. He left the shop, and subsequently returned on 29th March with Detective Williams, who purchased another copy of the same work, but neither Mr. Bradlaugh nor Mrs. Besant were present, consequently he obtained it from the shopman.
      Mr. Bradlaugh ; are you aware that previous notice had been given by me of my intention to sell the pamphlet, and that I intimated to the chief office of the detective department at Old Jewry that I should sell it on the 24th March. Witness: Yes that is so.
      Mr. Bradlaugh said there were 12 or 14 gentlemen who were ready to become sureties, and repeated the wish that the magistrates would adjourned the case for as long a period as possible, as there were some forty persons whom he wished to call, and he would, in the interim, have the opportunity of eliminating part of the evidence so as to save as much as possible the time of the Court. He would find it necessary to call Dr. Carpenter and several of the largest publishers in London, on the part of defence, and it would therefore be a matter of personal convenience to gentlemen whose time was so much occupied if his Worship could fix a time for the second hearing.
      The case was then adjourned until the 17th inst, at eleven o’clock. The gentlemen who were accepted as bail in £200 each for defendant’s appearance were Dr. C. R. Drysdale, Mr. J. S. Swangman, Mr. W. Bell, publisher, of Great Queen-street Lincoln’s inn Fields, and Mr. A. Truelove, bookseller, High Holborn. The defendants themselves entered into their own recognisances in the sum of £200 each. 
